# Copyright (c) 2019 by Delphix. All rights reserved.

# Delphix Virtualization SDK

This repository contains the Virtualization SDK for building custom data source integrations for the Delphix Dynamic Data Platform.

There are two sets of artifacts produced by this repository: a JAR containing autogenerated Java protobuf classes and a set of Python distributions that, together, make up the SDK.

# Development process

This repository is going through a lot of changes. It is being migrated to GitHub and open sourced. The development process will change throughout this process so please refer back to this README regularly to understand what the current development process is.

At a very high level, our development process usually looks like this:

1. Make changes to SDK and appgate code. Test these changes manually. Iterate on this until you have everything working.
2. Publish a development build of the SDK and the Java protobuf classes to artifactory.
3. Update the version of the SDK and Java protobuf classes specified in the app gate.
4. Publish a review for SDK code, and also publish a "provisional" review of appgate code. Address any feedback.
5. Push the SDK code and publish new SDK builds and Java protobuf classes to our internal servers.
6. Finalize your appgate review.
7. Push the appgate changes.

Not every type of change requires every step.

These steps are described in more detail below.

## Background

There are three parts of the SDK that are important to think about separately since they have slightly different workflows.

1. The `tools` package is the SDK's CLI. This aids in plugin development, testing, and distribution.
2. There are three sets of protobuf messages: `common`, `libs`, and `platform`. These define the Virtualization API that the SDK are built against. These will eventually be moved out of this repository.
3. `common`, `libs`, and `platform` also contain what are collectively called the "wrappers". These are vanilla Python classes that abstract the protobuf messages away from plugin developers. These expose the API plugin developers write against.

All dependencies of a plugin must be packaged with the plugin including the protobuf messages and the wrappers. This is done automatically by `dvp build`. The Delphix Engine only needs the autogenerated Java protobuf classes to be able to communicate with a plugin.

This is what causes the slightly different workflows in development. Changes to `tools` are completely isolated from the Delphix Engine, wrappers changes only impact the plugin build, and protobuf changes need to be pulled into the Delphix Engine.

Unfortunately, at the moment _all_ SDK changes require an app-gate change. Currently BlackBox looks at a property file in the app-gate to determine which version of the SDK to install during tests. This will eventually change, but at the moment any SDK change needs to be accompanied by an app-gate change that, at a minimum, bumps this version.

## Local SDK Development

To setup local development, refer to README-dev.md in the `tools` directory. This walks through the setup of a local virtualenv for development. This should be done for _all_ SDK changes.

### CLI changes

To better understand how to develop and test `tools` changes, see README-dev.md in the `tools` directory.

### Wrappers-only changes

Run `dvp build --dev` to build your plugin and then upload it to a Delphix Engine to test.

The wrappers are built with the plugin. `dvp build` has a hidden `--dev` flag. This builds `common`, `libs`, and `platform` locally and bundles them with the plugin. A special configuration entry is needed in your dvp config file which is located at `~/.dvp/config`:

```
[dev]
vsdk_root = /path/to/vsdk_repo_root
```

### Protobuf changes

Protobuf changes are needed by both the plugin and the app-gate. Once the protobuf message changes have been made:

1. Build the plugin with `dvp build --dev`
2. Build the JAR and update the app-gate to pull it in (instructions below)

### Versioning
The first thing to do is to change the version number. There are _two_ places where the version needs to be changed unfortunately. For almost all cases, this will simply involve incrementing the "build number", which is the three-digit number at the very end of the version.

1. In the root of the SDK codebase, open the `build.gradle` file, and change the version.
2. In `tools/src/main/python/dlpx/virtualization/_internal/settings.cfg` change the `package_version` property.

The two versions should be identical.

This repository is going through a transition in which Gradle will eventually be removed. The version string will eventually only live in the individual packages themselves.

#### Using Local SDK Build (For Eclipse use)

Eclipse does not use gradle to build, so you have to follow special steps if you're using Eclipse. Update this line to the appropriate version:

```
<dependency org="com.delphix.virtualization" name="api-java" rev="version"/>
```

### Testing

Currently, there are three types of SDK testing: unit, manual, and blackbox.

#### Unit Testing

Running `./gradlew test` from the top level of the repository will run all SDK unit tests. Smaller sets of tests can be run from inside each directory (`common`, `platform`, etc.) by going into that directory and running `../gradlew test`. These can also be run through your IDE.

#### Testing sdk-gate changes with app-gate code

There are two pieces here. First, if there are any protobuf changes they need to be pulled in by the app-gate. Second, at the moment blackbox refers to a property file in the app-gate to determine the version of the SDK to install for tests so this property always needs to updated for automated testing.

NOTE: The app-gate does not pull in the wrappers or CLI from this repository.

The easiest way to do both of these is:

1. Update the version of the SDK to something unique and clearly a development build. The standard is `x.y.z-internal-abc-<your_name>`. For example, `1.1.0-internal-001-grant`.
2. Run `./gradlew publishDebug` from the root of this repository.
3. In `appliance/gradle.properties` in the app-gate update `virtualizationSdkVer` and `virtualizationApiVer` to both match the SDK version.

Run an appliance-update for manual testing and/or kick off automated blackbox tests.


## SDK Review and Provisional app-gate review

Once you're finished with local development and testing, you can publish your final SDK review to reviewboard.

In addition, it's customary to publish a "provisional" appgate review, so that people can get insight into how the out-for-review SDK changes will actually be used by the appgate. Of course, this review will contain all your temporary local-build changes mentioned above. So, in your review, you'll want to mention that these temporary changes will be reverted before the review is finalized.

## Pushing and Deploying SDK Code


### Publishing

There are two Gradle tasks that do publishing: `publishDebug` and `publishProd`. They differ in two ways:

1. They publish the Python distributions to separate repositories on Artifactory (the jar is always published to the same one.). `publishDebug` uploads to `dvp-local-pypi`. This is a special repository that has been setup to test the SDK. It falls back our our production PyPI repository, but artifacts uploaded to `dvp-local-pypi` do not impact production artifacts. This should be used for testing. `publishProd` does upload the Python distributions to our production Artifactory PyPI repository, `delphix-local`.

2. `publishProd` runs tests, formatting, and linting while `publishDebug` does not.

NOTE: The external release to `pypi.org` is done outside of the build system.

#### Setup

1. There are three environment variables that need to be set in order to publish: `ARTIFACTORY_PYPI_USER`, `ARTIFACTORY_PYPI_PASS`, and `ARTIFACTORY_JAR_KEY`.

	`ARTIFACTORY_PYPI_USER` and `ARTIFACTORY_PYPI_PASS` are one set of credentials used to upload the Python distributions to our internal PyPI repositories. The credentials are the same for both internal PyPI repositories mentioned above.
	`ARTIFACTORY_JAR_KEY`

   - `ARTIFACTORY_PYPI_USER` and `ARTIFACTORY_PYPI_PASS` is the username/password combo given to you by whoever setup your Artifactory pypi account. This is an account separate from your Artifactory account. If you do not have one, please reach out to the `#artifactory` channel and request a `dvp-uploaders-python` account. See <https://docs.delphix.com/pages/viewpage.action?spaceKey=EO&title=Artifactory-instance#Artifactory-instance-SDKpythonpackages> for directions on how to add the account. These are used to upload the Python distributions to our internal PyPI repositories. The credentials are the same for both internal PyPI repositories mentioned above.
   - `ARTIFACTORY_JAR_KEY` is your Artifactory API key and is used to upload the jar. It can be retreived from http://artifactory.delphix.com/artifactory/webapp/#/profile. You may have to login. This is different from the PyPI credentials because the artifacts are being uploaded to different repositories on Artifactory.

2. `twine` needs to be installed. This is a Python package that is used to upload Python distributions. If it's not installed, install it by running `pip install twine`.

#### Final Publishing

Once you are absolutely certain all changes have been made run `./gradlew publishProd`. This will run checks, build the jar, create the Python distributions, and upload all of them to Artifactory with the Python distributions going to `delphix-local`.

## Using Newly-Deployed SDK Build

Now, we have to go back to our `appgate` code and make it point to the newly-deployed build on artifactory, instead of the local build we used to test.

1. Modify `appliance/gradle.properties` and change `virtualizationSdkVer` and `virtualizationApiVer` to refer to your new version number.
2. Modify `ivy-eclipse-deps.xml` and change the `com.delphix.virtualization` line to refer to your new version number.

## Finalizing Appgate Review

Once you've got the above changes completed, tested, and checked into git, you can update your appgate review. Now, your review will be ready for final ship-its.
