# Release - v1.0.0

To install or upgrade the SDK, refer to instructions [here](/Getting_Started.md#installation).

## New & Improved

* Added support for a CLI configuration file to specify default options for `dvp` commands. More details [here](/Best_Practices/CLI_Configuration_File.md).
* Improved speed and scalability of plugin operations:
    * Reduced startup time for plugin operations from seconds to milliseconds.
    * Improved memory utilization on the Delphix Engine to enable a large number of plugin operations to execute in parallel.

* Added the ability for plugins to raise user visible messages with a custom message, action and output related to a failure during a plugin operation. Refer to the [User Visible Errors](/Best_Practices/User_Visible_Errors.md) section for more details.
* Improved validation for type and range checks for autogenerated classes.
* Improved security for the plugin's runtime when executed on the Delphix Engine.
* Removed the Delphix Engine feature flag `PYTHON_TOOLKITS` as the Delphix Engine supports plugins built on the SDK by default. The [Getting Started](/Getting_Started.md#installation) section has been updated has well.


## Breaking Changes

* The following fields in the [Plugin Config](/References/Plugin_Config.md) were renamed:

    | Previous | Updated |
    | -------- | ------- |
    | `name` | `plugin_id` |
    | `prettyName` | `name` |

    Additionally, the `plugin_id` is now required to be a UUID with a format: `[0-9a-fA-F]{8}\-[0-9a-fA-F]{4}\-[0-9a-fA-F]{4}\-[0-9a-fA-F]{4}\-[0-9a-fA-F]{12}`.

    [**Detailed steps to detect and make changes.**](/Release_Notes/1.0.0/1.0.0_Breaking_Changes.md#plugin-config-fields-renamed)

## Fixed

* Updated remote host operations to execute as the [RemoteUser](/References/Classes/#remoteuser) specfied instead of the primary environment user.
* Fixed an incorrect user exception when the required plugin operation `linked.post_snapshot` was missing.
* Updated [run_expect](/Platform_Libraries/#run_expect) to return an `exit_code`, `stdout`, `stderr` like other platform library functions.
* Fixed [run_powershell](/Platform_Libraries/#run_powershell) to not automatically redirect `stderr` to `stdout`.
* Ensured that all exceptions raised by the [Staged Linked Source Worker](/References/Plugin_Operations/#staged-linked-source-worker) plugin operation are converted to faults for the user.
* Enabled the [MountSpecification](/References/Classes.md#mountspecification) to be constructed with `mounts` that refer to different environments.
* Sanitized the Python stack traces from exceptions during plugin execution and removed paths that reference where the plugin was built.
* Removed a spurious build warning for `DIRECT` plugins that incorrectly suggested implementing  the [Staged Linked Source Mount Specification](/References/Plugin_Operations.md#staged-linked-source-mount-specification) plugin operation.
* Removed a spurious message `global name 'exit' is not defined` which was displayed when a plugin library function failed.
* Updated `manualDiscovery` to be optional in the [Plugin Config](/References/Plugin_Config.md). The default value will be `True`.