# Release - v3.0.0

To install or upgrade the SDK, refer to instructions [here](/Getting_Started.md#installation).

## New & Improved
* Added the ability to define snapshot parameters in a [Snapshot Parameters Definition](/References/Schemas_and_Autogenerated_Classes.md#snapshotparametersdefinition-schema).
	* Provide end-users with configurable options prior to taking a snapshot.
	* The options selected are provided as input to pre/post-snapshot functions.

* Added support to initialize an [empty VDB](/References/Glossary#empty-vdb).
	* Create an empty virtual dataset within Delphix, instead of creating it externally and ingesting it.
	* Utilize this functionality by implementing the [initialize](/References/Plugin_Operations#virtual-source-initialize) operation.

* Added a `scratch_path` property on the [RemoteHost](/References/Classes/#remotehost) object which can be used as:
	* A location to store small amounts of persistent data.
	* A location to mount VDB data.

More details about `scratch_path` can be found [here](/Best_Practices/Scratch_Paths.md)

## Breaking Changes

* Added a new required schema [Snapshot Parameters Definition](/References/Schemas_and_Autogenerated_Classes.md#snapshotparametersdefinition-schema).

[**For more information and detailed steps to detect and make changes.**](/Release_Notes/3.0.0/3.0.0_Breaking_Changes#new-required-schema)

* Added a new parameter to the [Direct Linked Source Pre-Snapshot](/References/Plugin_Operations/#direct-linked-source-pre-snapshot) and [Direct Linked Source Post-Snapshot](/References/Plugin_Operations/#direct-linked-source-pre-snapshot) plugin operations.

[**For more information and detailed steps to detect and make changes.**](/Release_Notes/3.0.0/3.0.0_Breaking_Changes#new-parameter-in-direct-prepost-snapshot-functions)

* Renamed a parameter in the [Staged Linked Source Pre-Snapshot](/References/Plugin_Operations/#staged-linked-source-pre-snapshot) and [Staged Linked Source Post-Snapshot](/References/Plugin_Operations/#staged-linked-source-post-snapshot) plugin operations.

[**For more information and detailed steps to detect and make changes.**](/Release_Notes/3.0.0/3.0.0_Breaking_Changes#parameter-renamed-in-staged-prepost-snapshot-functions)
